url,headline,content,summary,org,sentiment
https://indianexpress.com/article/cities/delhi/excise-policy-case-delhi-court-brs-k-kavitha-bail-plea-cbi-9440852/,Excise policy case: Delhi court seeks CBI reply on BRS legislator K Kavitha’s bail plea,"A Delhi court Monday issued notice to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on the default bail plea of BRS legislator K Kavitha in the corruption case linked to the excise policy “scam”. She had moved the bail on Saturday. The matter will now be heard on July 12.
Special Judge Kaveri Baweja is also likely to take cognizance of the third supplementary chargesheet filed by the CBI in the case which names Kavitha as an accused on July 15.
“Cognizance of the case has already been taken. We are aware that a policy was made and the influence of ‘South Group’ was there. All key persons in the group worked under Kavitha’s command,” said Special Public Prosecutor D P Singh, appearing for the central probe agency.
Advertisement



Kavitha, a member of the Telangana legislative council — who has been under the scanner of the CBI and Enforcement Directorate (ED) for almost two years — was arrested by the ED from Hyderabad on March 15. In April, she was arrested by the CBI as well.
In its remand application against Kavitha, the agencies had earlier alleged that she met Telugu Desam Party (TDP) MP Magunta Srinivasulu Reddy in March 2021, and told him that Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had spoken to her and demanded Rs 100 crore (for setting up a liquor business in Delhi); she had allegedly also asked Reddy to arrange Rs 50 crore.
In two prosecution complaints (equivalent to chargesheets), the ED had claimed that members of the so-called ‘South Group’ that Kavitha was associated with paid bribes to exploit the loopholes in the excise policy that would secure their uninhibited access to various wholesale businesses and retail zones in violation of rules.
Reading out Reddy’s statements before the Rouse Avenue Court, D P Singh stated that the MP had met the Delhi Chief Minister on March 16, 2021, and had later also met Kavitha to discuss opening a liquor business in Delhi.Advertisement
“Raghava Magunta (Reddy’s son) also confirmed this (in his statements),” D P Singh added.
The agency had also relied on Reddy’s statements to make a case against Kejriwal, who is in judicial custody in both the corruption and the money laundering cases linked to the excise policy “scam”.
“I will give a list of statements I’m relying upon… there are many people who will ultimately speak against Kavitha,” Singh added.
Kavitha is currently in judicial custody till July 18 in the CBI’s case.
 ",BRS legislator K Kavitha had moved the bail on Saturday. The matter will now be heard on July 12. She has been under the scanner of the CBI and Enforcement Directorate for almost two years. She was arrested by the ED from Hyderabad on March 15.,BRS,positive
https://indianexpress.com/article/cities/delhi/delhi-hc-medical-board-man-request-passive-euthanasia-9440645/,Delhi HC refuses to refer to medical board man’s request to undergo passive euthanasia,"The Delhi High Court recently refused to order the constitution of a medical board to consider if a 30-year-old man, who has been in a vegetative state since 2013 after suffering head injuries from a fall, can undergo passive euthanasia.
In its July 2 order, a single-judge bench of Justice Subramonium Prasad referred to a Supreme Court decision from 2018 and observed that facts indicated that the petitioner, Harish Rana, was not being kept alive “mechanically” and could sustain himself without any extra external aid. It said that the petitioner was not on any life-support system.
The HC said the petitioner is “thus living” and no one, including a physician, is permitted to cause the death of another person by administering any lethal drug, “even if the objective is to relieve the patient from pain and suffering”.
Advertisement



Passive euthanasia refers to intentionally letting a patient die by withholding artificial life support such as a ventilator or feeding tube.
In its 2018 decision in Common Cause v. Union of India, the Supreme Court had said, “Thus, the law of the land as existing today is that no one is permitted to cause the death of another person, including a physician, by administering any lethal drug even if the objective is to relieve the patient from pain and suffering… We are thus of the opinion that the right not to take a life-saving treatment by a person, who is competent to make an informed decision, is not covered by the concept of euthanasia as it is commonly understood but a decision to withdraw life-saving treatment by a patient who is competent to take decision as well as with regard to a patient who is not competent to take decision can be termed as passive euthanasia, which is lawful and legally permissible in this country.”
The HC observed that the Supreme Court had held that “active euthanasia is legally impermissible”. “While the Court sympathises with the parents, as the petitioner is not terminally ill, this Court cannot intervene and allow consideration of a prayer that is legally untenable,” the bench said while dismissing the plea.
The petitioner, who was a student at Punjab University, had suffered head injuries after falling from the fourth floor of his paying guest house. The plea stated that his family had done their best to treat him. However, he had been confined to his bed since 2013 due to “diffuse axonal injury with permanent vegetative state, quadriplegia with 100% disability”.Advertisement
Diffuse axonal injury is a type of traumatic brain injury.
The plea stated that the petitioner’s family had consulted various doctors and were informed that there was no scope for recovery from the present situation.
It was stated that the petitioner has not responded for the last 11 years, and has developed deep and large bed sores which have caused further infection.
It was stated that his family has lost all hope for his recovery and is not in a position to take care of him as they are getting old. In this situation, the petitioner approached the HC for a direction to refer him to a Medical Board to consider whether he could be allowed to undergo passive euthanasia. (reporter: Malavika Prasad
 ","Delhi High Court refused to order constitution of a medical board to consider if a 30-year-old man, who has been in a vegetative state since 2013, can undergo passive euthanasia. A single-judge bench of Justice Subramonium Prasad referred to a Supreme Court decision from 2018.",Delhi High Court,negative
https://indianexpress.com/article/cities/delhi/arvind-kejriwal-plea-tihar-jail-virtul-meeting-lawyers-ed-9439737/,"Delhi High Court seeks ED, Tihar Jail responses to Kejriwal’s plea for more virtual meetings with lawyers","The Delhi High Court on Monday sought the responses of the Tihar Jail authorities and the Enforcement Directorate to the plea of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who is presently in judicial custody in the money laundering and corruption cases linked to the alleged excise policy scam, for two additional virtual meetings with his lawyers in a week.
A single-judge bench of Justice Neena Bansal Krishna listed the matter for July 15.
The AAP national convener—who is currently in judicial custody in the money-laundering and corruption cases linked to the excise policy “scam”—moved the high court against a trial court’s July 1 order that dismissed his application for two additional meetings with his lawyers via videoconferencing in a week.
Advertisement



Kejriwal has said that he has 30-35 cases pending against him, due to which he required consultations and discussions with his lawyers.
On July 1, Special Judge Kaveri Baweja of Rouse Avenue Courts said in its order, “The application under consideration discloses no new/fresh ground to take a view different from the earlier order dated 10.04.2024 (when Kejriwal’s similar application was dismissed).”
The chief minister is currently allowed two meetings with his lawyers in a week.
Before the high court, senior counsel Ramesh Gupta, appearing for Kejriwal, said the chief minister was requesting only two more meetings via videoconferencing with his lawyers. “I don’t know what is wrong about that,” Gupta said.Advertisement
Advocate Zoheb Hossain, appearing for the ED, said he wished to file a reply. The counsel appearing for the Tihar Jail authorities said he too wished to file a reply.
The counsel appearing for the Tihar Jail authorities said he too wished to file a reply. On the court’s query as to the objection to the CM’s plea the counsel that the rule is the same for all and a prisoner is entitled to two meetings with his or her advocate in a week.
Kejriwal was arrested on March 21 by the ED in a money-laundering case linked to the now-scrapped Delhi excise policy. On June 25, the Delhi High Court stayed a trial court order granting him bail in the ED case. The next day, Kejriwal withdrew his plea in the Supreme Court against the high court’s decision to reserve its verdict on the ED plea to stay the trial court’s bail order.
On June 25, Kejriwal was questioned by the CBI in Tihar jail, where he was in judicial custody in the money-laundering case. The next day, the CBI placed Kejriwal under arrest in the corruption case and produced him before the Rouse Avenue court of Special Judge Amitabh Rawat.Advertisement
The agency sought his custody for five days to confront him with evidence in the conspiracy case linked to excise policy. Sending the chief minister to three-day CBI custody, Judge Rawat said his arrest was “not illegal” and that the agency should not be “overzealous”.
On June 29, the trial court sent Kejriwal to judicial custody until July 12 after his three-day custody ended.
 ",A single-judge bench of Justice Neena Bansal Krishna listed the matter for July 15. The trial court sent Kejriwal to judicial custody until July 12 after his three-day custody ended.,,na
https://indianexpress.com/article/cities/delhi/noida-authority-attacked-anti-encroachment-drive-arrested-9439686/,"Noida Authority officials attacked during anti-encroachment drive, 2 arrested","The Noida police arrested two men on Saturday for allegedly attacking a team of Noida Authority officials during an anti-encroachment drive.
The accused have been identified as Chirag Nehra and Sumit Yadav. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Mishra said a joint team led by a junior engineer had gone to dismantle the unlawful structures behind Starling Mall near Sector 104 of Noida. “An FIR was later filed at the Sector 39 police station. Two people were arrested, and further investigation is underway,” he added.
Noida Authority Chief Executive Officer M Lokesh told The Indian Express that the building had been sealed twice before. “It was also demolished during the election this year but resurrected. The attacks are just a way to deter our efforts,” he said.
Advertisement



However, the ADCP said the authority had not informed the police about the demolition drive earlier.
“As for informing the police before the demolition, our staff and managers were not aware of the seriousness of the issue,” Lokesh said.
 ",The accused have been identified as Chirag Nehra and Sumit Yadav. A joint team led by a junior engineer had gone to dismantle the unlawful structures behind Starling Mall.,Chirag Nehra,negative
https://indianexpress.com/article/cities/delhi/warrant-whatsapp-noida-police-digital-arrest-cyber-fraud-9439546/,‘Warrant is not issued over WhatsApp’: Noida police issue advisory to prevent ‘digital arrests’ in cyber frauds,"The Noida police have issued an advisory warning citizens about a rise in cyber fraud involving the ‘digital arrest’ method. Officials have reported around 10 cases of ‘digital arrests’ in the past few months, leading to the filing of FIRs and ongoing investigations.
“Through in-depth analysis of bank account holders, registered mobile numbers and mobile numbers, it has been found that active cyber criminals from Jaipur, Bhilwara and Bikaner of Rajasthan were carrying out this act. In this regard, a team under the leadership of ACP (Cybercrime) and the inspector in charge of the cyber police station went to Jaipur and Bikaner in Rajasthan, collected some important clues from their possible locations and included them in the analysis. The gang will be exposed as soon as possible,” said an official.
‘Digital arrest’ is a highly sophisticated method cyber criminals use to deceive citizens. They pose as police officials or enforcement officers from departments such as Customs and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) through WhatsApp or mobile phone and claim that their package has been intercepted and that illegal items such as drugs have been found in it. Further, they ask the victims to stay over the Skype call for many hours and threaten them that if they tell anybody about this, including their family or friends, during the whole operation, they will have to face dire consequences. In this way, cyber criminals hold people in custody or arrest over the digital space for even up to 24 hours.
Advertisement



They provide the victim with hope by promising to clear their name and issue a clearance certificate, which will prevent future harassment. However, in order to do this, they ask the victims to transfer money. Once the fraudsters receive the money, they vanish completely.
In the 12-point advisory, the Noida police said, “Before believing the calls made by any unknown person wearing a police uniform, check the phone number and the mentioned name and post through Google search or details available on the website of the concerned department and their deployment. Before sharing any information on WhatsApp calls and video calls, check with the help desk of various institutions like nearby cyber cells or related departments like narcotics (control), Fedex courier, CBI, etc.”
It said, “Never search on a search engine like Google by entering their number. Helpline numbers of various departments have been uploaded on Google by cybercriminals. If you have sent no parcel or if you are being told that a parcel has been received in which your Aadhar card or mobile number is found, then do not trust the said call; it could be a call from a cybercriminal. If you are being threatened with any legal action, do not panic and do inform this immediately to the concerned/nearby police station.”
The Noida police said, “If a bank account is opened in your name using your Aadhaar/ID, you should immediately visit the nearest bank, gather information, and take necessary steps to close the account.Advertisement
“If any unknown person is calling you and saying that a non-bailable warrant (NBW) or warrant has been issued against you, then immediately go to the nearest police station and collect information regarding the above and inform the police because NBW or warrant is issued in any investigation by the competent court. The police do not serve NBW on WhatsApp. If through WhatsApp call or video call it is said that money related to hawala or money laundering has come into your account, then do not believe the said call because no government organisation gives information about money laundering or hawala money through phone,” said the police.
The Noida police also said that if a police clearance certificate is issued after checking a person’s account through WhatsApp or video call, then it is certain that cyber fraudsters are misleading the person into transferring money into their account.
 ","‘Digital arrest’ is a highly sophisticated method cyber criminals use to deceive citizens. In this way, cyber criminals hold people in custody or arrest over the digital space for up to 24 hours. The police do not serve NBW on WhatsApp.",NBW,negative
https://indianexpress.com/article/cities/delhi/delhi-man-abducted-killed-up-village-raping-blackmailing-minor-9439493/,Delhi man abducted and killed in UP village for ‘raping and blackmailing’ minor,"A 20-year-old man was allegedly abducted from his house in Delhi by the relatives of a minor girl living in his neighbourhood, who claimed he had raped their niece, and beaten to death in a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat over the weekend.
Rajni Sharma, the mother of Himanshu Sharma, lodged the First Information Report (FIR) at the Baghpat Kotwali police station on Sunday against eight people, including the mother of the minor girl. Two of those named in the FIR have so far been arrested while the hunt is on for the remaining accused, the police said.
“We have arrested two, Gopal and Sohanpal, and raids are being conducted to nab others,” said Harish Bhadauria, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Baghpat.
Advertisement



The accused claimed Himanshu Sharma, a resident of Kartar Nagar in Northeast Delhi’s Shahdara area, raped their 14-year-old niece on June 27 and had been blackmailing her.
“We have lodged the FIR and have arrested two persons in this regard. We are probing the charges levelled in the FIR while the body was handed over to the mother of the deceased after the post-mortem examination,” said Sanjeev Kumar, the Station House Officer(SHO), Baghpat Kotwali police station.
Anil Kumar Sharma, Himanshu’s uncle, said his nephew was kidnapped on Saturday by Ajay Pal who lives in his neighbourhood and his relatives
“Ajay’s mother Sundari informed us that Himanshu had been killed and his body was lying in the forest in Baghpat village. We rushed to the village taking Sundari with us and on reaching the spot we found Himanshu in a semi-conscious state in the forest near Pabti Shamsabad village. We immediately took him to the local hospital where he was declared ‘brought dead’,” said Anil Kumar Sharma.Advertisement
Himanshu’s mother Rajni and others accompanying her had created a ruckus at Baghpat Kotwali on Sunday morning alleging that the local police were shielding the culprits and threatened to stage a protest if those responsible for her son’s murder were not arrested soon.
“We contacted the police at Usmanpur village on Saturday evening after we did not find any trace of Himanshu late on Saturday evening but they refuse to lodge the FIR,” claimed Anil Kumar Sharma.
 ","Himanshu Sharma, 20, was allegedly abducted from his house in Delhi by the relatives of a minor girl living in his neighbourhood. They claimed he had raped their niece, and beaten to death in a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat. Two of those named in the FIR have so far been arrested while the hunt is on for the remaining accused.",FIR,negative
https://indianexpress.com/article/cities/delhi/mahatma-gandhi-life-size-statue-plan-nelson-mandela-marg-delhi-public-works-department-9439125/,Delhi: Plan to install 50-ft-tall Gandhi statue on Nelson Mandela Marg dropped,"After several attempts to install a 50-ft statue of Mahatma Gandhi on Nelson Mandela Marg, the Delhi Public Works Department (PWD) has decided to shelve the ambitious plan as a solution could not be found to keep it stable, said officials
The statue, 50 feet tall and with a 10-foot-high foundation, was to be a unique feature of the redevelopment and beautification project of the stretch. But its weight was around 500 kg which, according to officials, was less compared to its height. With these specifications, it would cause stability issues, officials had said earlier.
“The statue might dislodge or keel over when there is strong wind… it would have been a national shame… To avoid any such disaster, PWD officials had directed the contractors to consult the Indian Institute of Technology Delhi but a concrete solution could not be reached…,” said officials.
“The project has been dropped,” they added.
Advertisement



The statue, of Gandhi holding a stick, was to be similar to the one at the Gyarah Murti on Sardar Patel Marg. The head and torso were being created separately with reinforced fibre. The idea behind the project was to ensure the statue was visible even from a distance.
Meanwhile, officials said the rest of the beautification work was completed earlier — sidewalks and footpaths have been revamped, cycle tracks created, and plantation work has been done.
“We completed the civil work. Electrical work like installation of ornamental poles and decorative lamps was also done. We also created a small park with palm trees and several other plantations near the Vasant Kunj Mall area,” said another official.
The Nelson Mandela road connects parts of Munirka and goes towards Vasant Kunj and other parts of South Delhi.Advertisement
A 500-metre-long stretch on the central verge of this road and nearly a kilometre-long pavement underwent a revamp as part of the ambitious streetscaping project of the Delhi government.
The estimated cost of redeveloping the stretch was Rs 19.16 crore.
 ","The statue, 50 feet tall and with a 10-foot-high foundation, was to be a unique feature of the redevelopment and beautification project of the stretch. But its weight was around 500 kg which, according to officials, was less compared to its height.",,na
https://indianexpress.com/article/cities/delhi/eye-on-2025-polls-bjp-steps-up-attack-on-aap-congress-at-key-meeting-9439139/,"Eye on 2025 polls, BJP steps up attack on AAP & Congress at key meeting","The arrest of CM Arvind Kejriwal among other key leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in different cases, the AAP’s alliance with Congress to fight Lok Sabha elections, and the development projects executed by Centre in the capital – the first extended executive meeting of Delhi unit of the BJP saw party leaders stepping up attack on rivals.
Eyeing the Assembly elections due next year, the party leaders spoke of increasing efforts to ensure that Delhi has a “double-engine” government.
“This election saw a coalition of two failed parties (AAP and Congress) that fought together for their selfish interests, and that is why their defeat matters. The people of Delhi have shown that they stand with the right, not with the corrupt. There is a government in Delhi that is only playing the game of bail from jail,” Delhi BJP chief Virendra Sachdeva, who chaired the meeting, said. The meeting was inaugurated by Union Minister Piyush Goyal.
Advertisement



An exhibition showcasing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s work over the past 10 years and the struggles of Delhi’s workers over the past 18 months was also held.
Sachdeva said that the people of Delhi “blessed” them with all seven seats in the Lok Sabha polls and it was a response to the alleged corruption by the government led by Kejriwal. The BJP won all seven Lok Sabha seats in Delhi for the third time in a row.
The meeting comes months before Delhi is expected to go to Assembly polls in February. The AAP won the polls by a crushing majority in both 2015 and 2020.
“The effort we put into the Lok Sabha polls needs to be quadrupled to uproot the corrupt Kejriwal government from Delhi,” Sachdeva said.Advertisement
Goyal, meanwhile, attacked both Kejriwal as well as Congress MP Rahul Gandhi.
“As the country’s development journey continues, we move forward towards becoming a developed nation. However, it is unfortunate that a leader with a ‘child’s’ mind does not understand that the country’s public has kept his party below 100 seats for the third time, and in 13 states, they did not even open an account. Congress has become a parasitic party,” he said.
He also spoke about the Centre’s schemes, such as Ayushman Bharat, which has not been implemented in Delhi. “For the 2025 Assembly elections, we need to start working hard now to bring a double-engine government to Delhi, enabling continuous development,” he added.
In the political proposal, presented by newly-elected MP Ramvir Bidhuri and passed in the meeting, BJP spoke about the development work done by the Centre in the city, including the Bharat Mandapam, the new Parliament building, Kartavya Path, National War Memorial, and several road projects.Advertisement
Reacting to Goyal’s allegations, AAP in a statement said: “Delhi already has a far superior policy for healthcare of its citizens. The Ayushman scheme does not even cover OPD patients… What has the double-engine model provided? Bridges are falling, papers are getting leaked, and crime, inflation, and unemployment are increasing… Nothing is going to happen by abusing the AAP day and night….
 ",BJP leaders spoke of increasing efforts to ensure that Delhi has a ‘double-engine’ government. AAP in a statement said Delhi already has a far superior policy for healthcare.,BJP,positive
https://indianexpress.com/article/cities/delhi/doctor-loses-rs-50-lakh-in-foreign-currency-investment-fraud-9439140/,Doctor loses Rs 50 lakh in foreign currency investment fraud,"What started as a friendly conversation on social media with a woman claiming to give financial advice ended up in a fraud of Rs 50 lakh – a Gurgaon-based doctor has alleged in a police complaint, police said on Sunday.
The doctor works in the surgical oncology department at a hospital in Gurgaon. In his complaint submitted to the Cyber Police Station of South district last month, he said, “A woman befriended me on social media, and she then carried on the conversation on Telegram. After gaining my trust, she said she could offer me advice on gaining maximum return from foreign currency investments.”
“The woman”, the doctor further said, “asked me to try out a website. I invested Rs 40,000 at first and was shown a huge profit after which I was told to withdraw Rs 5,200. Lured by more returns over time, I invested more money and by May, I had increased my investment to Rs 23 lakh.”
Advertisement



“After I paid the amount, I was told by the woman to invest more and I invested more money for which I had to pay a tax of $9,000 for a profit of $30,000.” Over time, the complainant kept paying tax for the amount he had invested, which totaled Rs 50 lakh. This also included the tax amount he had to pay at regular intervals, he told police. The woman had after two months since befriending him, blocked his contact and the complainant is unable to contact her on her mobile phone or WhatsApp, he claimed.
A senior police officer said that a case of cheating under section 420 (cheating) of IPC has been lodged and an investigation is ongoing.
 ","The doctor works in the surgical oncology department at a hospital in Gurgaon. The woman had after two months since befriending him, blocked his contact. A case of cheating under section 420 (cheating) of IPC has been lodged.",IPC,negative
